Yes, we just go right on.
Okay. Thank you. Good afternoon everyone. I'm Fernando Nubla. I'm a project officer from
the European Commission and I'm going to tell you a story, the story of Leos. So, upon
a time we were in LaGislan and you can imagine LaGislan is not that funny. It's talking
about legislation, you know how complex legislation is. And in this case we had law legislation
that was complicating the life of everyone living in this kingdom. Legislative laws was
enforcing very complex rules to everyone that wanted to create a new piece of legislation.
Rules about the structure of the documents, formatting, etc. He was not taking care of
the versions. We had versions everywhere, in local computers, in surf folders, in everywhere
I can imagine, even in a paper. So it was getting very complicated for the people working
with the legislation. And there were a lot of people and no one was collaborating because
law legislate was not helping them on that. So we went to the round table, we tried to
find a solution. We needed to help these people. So we started by creating a work plan, an idea
of what we need to help them. We were defining more or less the solution that we wanted.
But there was something very important. It was the financing. We couldn't do this without
budget, without any financing. So we used two programs of the European Union, the ISA program
when we started in 2012. And then, right now, the ITA Euro program since 2020. With the
budget, the financing, and with the work plan, and with the idea of the project, then we
created Mr. Leos that you have here, and you have also in our search. Mr. Leos, we wanted
him to be an open tool that is a web application. We wanted to be able to draft tests. We wanted
to have a rich editor where you can put images, formulas, track changes. We wanted to have
collaborative tools to create comments, suggestions, to work with other people, everything centralized.
We take care of all the versions. So now they are not spread everywhere. They are all in
a central place, and you can go and check them. And something very important, we wanted to
use open standards. We didn't want to keep drafting legislation in an unestructured standard
that you can use further. We wanted to create something that is structured. And we are using
the commandos for you standard that is open for everyone, for any administration or government
that wants to use it. And the last aspect is that we wanted to do it open source. That
was something new, the European Commission doing open source projects. We did it. And
we bring with us the community. We are not just alone. We wanted to do this with member
states, with other countries, with academia, et cetera. Whoever wanted to help us is welcome.
And then I know you were waiting for this. There was a battle, of course, between the
Leos project and the legislation. But no one was harmed. So our idea was to convince them
that there was a better way to do the things. So finally we end up with a legislative in
our team. We are running around Europe. We are helping other member states, other institutions
to use this tool that is open source, is available for everyone. And together we are going towards
the future. And the future is leading us to artificial intelligence, machine learning,
imagine drafting legislation just with one click and getting the proper test. And this
is the tool. So everything that I said is true. You can check it out. We had all the
features that I was saying before. We had the structure. We had the versions everywhere.
We had the research with the touch changes. You have on the right the collaboration to
create comments, suggestions, the use of tests. We are using open projects like the CK Editor,
Hypothesis, EUI. So we are creating our software open and using open source projects. You can
check us in this QR code. You can scan also our t-shirts. We are in code.tropa.eu Leos.
All the software is available there. You can check it out. You can contribute while waiting
for you here. Thank you. And this is the end.